Hi everybody.
I'm Sara Drasner.
I'm really excited to be here
today in part because I just love
giving workshops for Frontend masters but
also because I'm a huge fan of
Frontend Masters as a student.
This is just one of my favorite
platforms for learning.
So today we're gonna talk about Vue.js.
As I mentioned before,
my name is Sarah Drasner.
This is me as a child picking my nose and
also my relationship with authority.
If you need to get in touch with me,
that is my handle on Twitter, @sarah_edo.
So if you need to ask me questions or
anything like that,
that's where you can find me.
I am VP of developer
experience at Netlify.
And I'm also on the Vue core team.
Right now I'm really focused on Docs work
which is really exciting because we have
this major release for
Vue 3 that just came out.
So I got to work on that.
And you might notice that
a couple of examples here and
there are similar to the Docs.
That's because I wrote them, so
you'll see a lot of different examples and
some from that area.
So why are we talking about Vue today?
Why should we spend
a whole day covering Vue?
Well, there are a couple
of different reasons.
One is it's really amazing framework that
a lot of people like around the world.
You might notice that it's the second most
starred GitHub repository in the world
after Free Code Camp.
Does this matter?
No, that doesn't matter at all.
GitHub stars are not a reflection
of how good something is.
But it doesn't not matter in the sense
that it does show that people really like
Vue, people really like working
with Vue all over the world.
So why do I like Vue?
I really like it because it's declarative
if you're familiar with imperative and
declarative programming.
Vue is really declarative.
In other words, things are not
written like steps in a recipe.
In imperative programming,
we're saying do this, do this, do this.
With declarative programming,
we're really setting a few things and
letting the computer do the hard work.
And you'll see that as soon as
we start to dive in to the API.
It's really legible.
There's a legibility of distinction
between methods, computed, and watchers.
I used to be a consultant and
I'd have to dive into different code
bases that were unfamiliar to me.
And because I knew exactly how those
pieces of the API were working and
the legibility of that distinction,
I could jump right in and
I could get started and
that was really helpful.
Because of this, it's really easy to
maintain, and I love that as a maintainer.
Even if I'm jumping into an old
project of my own, it's really helpful
to be able to get a lay of the land
really, really quickly and get started.
Vue kind of has a reputation for
being simple and easy to learn.
And I think that that's a really,
really amazing thing that you'll see
today as we start to work with it.
It's really powerful.
And you might think, well it's simple
though, how can it also be powerful?
But I think what you'll see is that
the surface layer is very simple,
but it also dives underneath
those obstructions.
So you have something very
simple on the surface, but
you can also get beneath the obstructions
in case they get in your way.
It's a collection of the best of the best.
When Evan You was first working with Vue,
he looked over the whole framework
landscape and he said, okay, well,
I really like this piece from Knockout.
I really like this piece from Angular.
I really liked this piece from React.
So you might notice if you come
from other frameworks, like, hey,
this looks a little familiar.
It's because it really is borrowed from
all of these different frameworks.
And it is a collection of
this best of the best.
Now, what you might assume when you
look at something that takes from so
many other places, and even invents
its own, that it might feel jumbled.
But what I really
appreciated about it is that
even though it's gathering
the best of the best,
it still manages to feel really
elegant when you're working with it.
It gives me what I want when I need it,
and then it gets out of my way.
There's a UX premise,
that's Don't Make Me Think.
And Kathy Sierra who's a UX expert says,
don't make me think
about the wrong things.
And I think that that's
how I feel when I use Vue.
I'm able to build super fast because it
gives me all of the things that I need.
And then all of the things that are kind
of repetitive tasks that I find myself
doing over and
over again, it gives me really simple
API's to just do those things quickly.
So I really love it.
It's a way to be really productive because
of all of those things because it's easy
to maintain, because it's powerful.
And goodness gracious, it's freaking fun.
I love working with Vue and I'm gonna
have such a fun time teaching you today.
I hope you're gonna have
a great time learning.
I put this little GIF in there,
that's a little yak shaving.
If you're not familiar with the term,
yak shaving is when you do a bunch of
other things because you have to
get something done in programming.
I like Vue because it
keeps me from yak shaving.
It says, hey, a lot of developers
are probably gonna take an input and
they're gonna trim out whitespace.
So I'll just give you
a modifier called dot trim.
So you don't have to keep doing
that over and over again.
Or maybe you're gonna loop through
a lot of arrays in your life.
Maybe we'll just give you
a simple way of doing that.
So that's really helpful as a developer.
I'm showing you this iPhone and
that's not because we're gonna
talk about mobile even though everything
that we're showing you is responsive,
works on mobile, and things like that.
It's more because it's a metaphor.
When I'm using the iPhone,
I feel like I'm working with a really
sophisticated piece of machinery.
I know that some of the smartest engineers
in the world work on the iPhone.
But yet when I use it,
I don't feel talked down to,
I feel like everything's at my fingertips.
I feel like I can access
everything really, really easily.
And I think that is a metaphor for
how I feel when I'm using Vue.
I feel like I have something
really powerful in my hands, but
it never feels like I'm fighting with it.
It always feels like everything
is right at my fingertips.
So let's do a quick comparison of other
frameworks just on a technical level of
what some of the similarities and
some of the differences are.
It offers a virtual DOM,
same with Angular, same with React,
same with a lot of JavaScript framework.
And we're actually gonna talk a little bit
about what the virtual DOM is today, so
you get to know what that premises.
It offers reactive component
that offer the view layer only.
So this is both similar and
different from both React and Angular.
React, despite the name is not reactive,
although you can make it reactive but
the use of libraries, but
it is the view layer only,
whereas Angular is reactive,
but it's an MVC.
It offers model, view, and controllers.
So that's a slight difference and
similarity to both of those frameworks.
As props and a centralized state
management store similar to React,
as we get to the last section today,
we're gonna start using Vuex.
We're also gonna talk about the
composition API which is a new feature in
Vue 3, which can be used as a centralized
state management store as well.
It offers conditional rendering and
services similar to Angular.
If you come from an Angular background,
you might look at the directives and
say, I know about these.
It's inspired by Polymer for
simplicity and performance.
Vue offers similar development
style with HTML styles and
JavaScript composed in tandem.
Vue offers the thing called
single file components,
which have HTML script and
styles all in one component.
And I'm gonna show you a few different
ways to make Vue components today.
And that's typically how Vue
developers are working with Vue, and
you'll see that when we move into Vue CLI.
Scoped styles in single file components
are available to you just by writing
an attribute that says scoped.
And it's similar to some types of CSS and
js-like CSS modules in React.
So what this course is, let's just get
the lay of the land really quickly.
This is an introduction.
It assumes no prior knowledge,
even of frameworks.
You can come really, really fresh and
everything is starting really at the base.
We're gonna go slowly through every
single piece to try to give you
a good lay of the land of all
of what Vue has to offer.
It's all this stuff to get you going.
Because it's an eight hour course and
there's a lot to cover.
I'm gonna cover the things that
I think are most valuable to you
to start to build applications so
that by the end of the day,
you can feel comfortable
starting to build things.
It has a lot of exercises
to help you learn.
You'll notice in this course, I have all
of these distinct modules and sections and
I show you a bunch of different ways
of working with the same concept.
That's because I don't want you
to learn just one way of working
because that just kind
of gives you one path.
So I might show you an example of list
rendering one way and then another way and
then another way so
that you can kind of get to see it
in a bunch of different contexts.
It's also so that if later on,
you wanna go back to the course and
you say hey, I forgot what computed was,
you can go right to the computed
section fork a CodePen,
play with it and get going again.
So this course does not do
a full application live coding,
we're covering basic premises and
a couple of more advanced features.
So we'll make sure that you have all of
the things that you need to get going.
And then we're also gonna cover
things like the composition API,
which is an additive
more advanced feature.
We're gonna talk about different ways to
work with Vuex and so on and so forth.
And anything that's out of the scope of
the course, I'll try to give you more
resources so that you can dive off into
learning a little bit more about it.
What we won't cover.
We're not gonna cover ES6/ECMAScript 2015,
however you wanna call it, and above, but
we'll use it.
This course is assumptive that you
have modern JavaScript knowledge and
there's lots of other courses like
Will Sentence's courses that kinda go over
those premises if you need a refresher.
We're not gonna go into minor details so
that we can cover more ground and
give you the full lay of
the land in the eight hours.
And we won't cover edge cases for
that same reason.
We're gonna dive right into
the things that get you going.
But there's another course in one day,
again, where we will build some of those
things and we'll kind of dive into
some of the idiosyncrasies of things.
Before we start, the repo lives at
github sdras intro-to-vue, here it is.
So in here, all of the things
that I used while I'm working,
I'm gonna work in VS Code
a little bit today.
All of the things that I
use to work in VS Code,
all the things that I work in Chrome Dev
tools and extensions are linked up here.
And here are all of the slides,
all the slides have embedded CodePen demo.
So if you need to get back
to them right away, you can.
The password for all of the slide
decks is Vue with exclamation points.
So you can click right to there and
get going.